Well, what did Jesus mean
when he said: “I give you my peace”?
What was the peace
that Jesus gave to his disciples?
Well, The Watchtower
of 2009, October 15, page 9,
had a very, very nice definition.
Here’s what it said:
“The peace that Christ leaves
“with his disciples is the inner calm
“they experience
when they feel that they are loved
“and approved by Jehovah God
and his beloved Son.”
Now, did you get that definition?
“The inner calm [that] they experience
“when they feel that they
are loved and approved
by Jehovah God and his beloved Son.”
What a beautiful definition!
And even more so, what a beautiful gift
is the peace that Jesus gives
to all of those who are his true disciples!
But what if we begin to feel
that we’re losing our inner peace?
What can we do to get it back
and then to maintain it?
Well, those are important questions.
Let’s talk in our discussion this morning
about three things that could cause us
to begin to lose that feeling of inner peace.
Now, here’s the first one:
doubting that Jehovah
really loves and approves us.
You know, when we go
through periods of discouragement
or perhaps periods of increased anxiety,
we may begin to feel
that no one really loves us,
that no one appreciates us.
And that can even extend to Jehovah.
We begin to feel, ‘Well, I don’t even think
Jehovah loves me anymore.’
Well, of course, that’s just exactly
what Satan the Devil wants us to think.
Because if we convince ourselves that Jehovah
doesn’t love us and he doesn’t approve us,
well, then we’re going to give up
—we’re not going
to continue on in our race for life.
Well, how can we fight back against this?
Well, we have to reassure ourselves
that Jehovah really does love us.
We have to sense how precious we are to God.
Now, let’s just think
about one simple thought
that might encourage us along this way.
Let’s go in our Bibles.
Let’s look at 1 Chronicles
chapter 28 and verse 9.
Now, you’ll notice
about midway down the verse
it says:
“Jehovah searches through all hearts,
“and he discerns
every inclination of the thoughts.”
Now, think about that.
Now, as Jehovah is searching
through all the hearts
that are on this planet,
can you imagine
the horrible things that Jehovah sees?
But what about when Jehovah
comes to a heart like yours?
When he sees a heart that has love for him,
that is in fear of him,
well, can you imagine how joyful
Jehovah is to see a heart like that?
Well, you might say to yourself:
‘I’m not important.
‘I’m not special.
‘I don’t do anything that’s noteworthy.
Why would Jehovah take notice of me?’
Well, again, let’s look at another
simple thought that might encourage you;
it’s Malachi chapter 3
and verse 16.
Now, just notice what it says here:
“At that time those who fear Jehovah
“spoke with one another,
“each one with his companion,
“and Jehovah kept paying attention
and listening.
“And a book of remembrance
was written before him
“for those fearing Jehovah
and for those meditating on his name.”
Well, now, when we read this verse,
did you notice that these ones
that Jehovah noticed
were doing anything major
or profound or outstanding?
Well, the verse just says that “those who
[were in fear of] Jehovah
spoke with one another.”
Well, that’s what we do all day long,
isn’t it?
Maybe it’s via Zoom,
but we’re constantly speaking
with one another
about our love for God.
Well, Jehovah pays attention,
and what does he do?
Well, the verse goes on to say
that he writes the names
of “those [who are] fearing” him,
“those meditating on his name.”
He writes them in his “book of remembrance,”
his “book of life.”
How wonderful!
How amazing that Jehovah
would take care to notice us!
So, what’s the point?
Brothers, you don’t have to do anything
major, profound, outstanding.
If you fear God, if you love him,
Jehovah loves you.
He views you as someone precious.
So accept Jehovah’s love.
Don’t fight it.
Don’t think of all the reasons
why you can’t be loved by God.
Accept it.
And when those anxious thoughts
flood into your mind
and you begin to doubt your value
and you begin to feel:
‘I’m just not worth— I’m worthless,
or I don’t have any value with Jehovah,’
well, follow the advice here
in Philippians chapter 4.
Now, this is a well-known scripture,
but we need to keep reading it
because this is a recipe for success,
Philippians 4:6;
it says: “Do not be anxious over anything,
“but in everything by prayer
“and supplication along with thanksgiving,
let your petitions be made known to God.”
Well, what’s the point?
You see, brothers,
during these times of pandemic
when there are so many trials
going on in our lives,
we may feel an increased amount of anxiety.
We have to pour out our heart to Jehovah.
It’s not just a matter of saying,
“Jehovah, I’m feeling anxious”
but we need to linger in prayer
and really talk to Jehovah
about how we’re feeling
and really express all the fears,
all the concerns, that we have.
But then, do you notice
that other detail in verse 6?
It says “along with thanksgiving.”
So we have to take time
to thank Jehovah for all our blessings.
You know, if you start
in prayer to thank Jehovah
for all the blessings you have in your life,
it’s going to take you some time because,
really, we have so many blessings
when we just take time
to ponder them and thank Jehovah.
Well, when we do that, what happens?
According to verse 7,
we experience that “peace of God,”
that inner peace,
that calms those anxious feelings.
What’s the second thing
that can rob us of our inner peace?
It’s comparing ourselves with others.
You know, this really can be
another form of questioning
Jehovah’s love for us.
You know, it can be like saying:
“I think Jehovah loves
that brother more than me.
“I see that brother, that sister;
they have privileges I don’t have,
so maybe Jehovah doesn’t love me
as much as he loves them.”
Well, that’s another recipe for disaster,
isn’t it?
Maybe we grew up in a situation
where we were always compared with others.
Did your parents say to you things like:
“Why can’t you be like your brother?
Why can’t you be like Brother Elder’s son?”
Well, if we listened to that all the time
we were growing up,
maybe we have that tendency now
to compare ourselves with others.
But what is the principle
of Galatians 6:4?
It tells us that we should
“examine [our] own actions,
“and then [we’ll have] cause for rejoicing
“in regard to [ourselves] alone,
and not in comparison
with the other person.”
What’s the point?
We have to set our own personal goals.
We have to get joy and satisfaction
from reaching those goals
and see the gifts that Jehovah has given us
and then use those gifts
to strengthen and encourage
and build up others.
In that way, you see,
we stop comparing ourselves with others,
and we find joy in seeing what we have
and what we can give to Jehovah
and to our brothers and sisters.
It helps us to maintain our inner peace.
But then here’s the last one:
filling our minds
with negative information.
Well, we always want to “keep on the watch”
—that’s true—
but a steady diet
of the sad, divisive, angry,
hate-filled information
that just is flooding the news media today
can begin to wear us down,
and we can begin to feel
our inner peace going away
because of all of this negative information.
Well, what do we need to do?
Well, we might have to turn it off.
We might have to put a limit
on how much we watch.
But at the same time,
we have to fill our minds
with positive, encouraging ideas.
In Psalm 94:19,
do you remember what Jehovah promised here?
Look at Psalm 94
and verse 19.
It says: “When anxieties overwhelmed me,
you comforted and soothed me.”